Let's build a CI pipeline.
I'm going to use a clean repository and build something from scratch.
We're going to include the three most common CI stages,
compile, test, and analyze.
In exercise that you just completed,
you may have used the repository that was provided to
you or you may have created your own solution.
I started with my own solution here.
In order to test this out, we need a few things.
We need a Git repository,
we need a CircleCI project,
and we need some code in the middle.
I've got a repository here in Git that I've created.
I've cloned it, I've got some code,
and now I'm ready to actually connect it in CircleCI.
Let's go ahead and do that.
I believe it was called udacity-ci-1.
Let's set up that project that CircleCI found for me.
Again, I don't like to use the built-in script that they have,
so I'm always adding manually.
Great, so we've got a connection in CircleCI.
We need to be able to do a few things.
Like I said before, we want to have a CI project,
CI server that is able to lint or build, run tests,
and do some code analysis,
so we can have a complete CI setup.
In order to do that,
I added a few scripts that I can run from the command line.
I've got my package.json here and I've got a script section where I can build.
I can start, if I'm actually developing this application.
I can lint, I can run tests,
and using my package manager tool npm,
I can actually run a security audit after the fact.
Let's try out these scripts in my terminal.
Should be able to type in npm run build.
Success. Now, I should be able to also run my tests.
Great. Now, the third thing I want to be able to do is to
actually perform a security audit on my dependencies.
I'm going to type in npm audit.
Great. So I have zero vulnerabilities.
These are the exact same commands that I want to be able to
run in my CircleCI configuration.
Remember, CircleCI is really just doing the same things that I can do as a developer.
Let's check out my CircleCI configuration.
Here we can see that I have a few jobs.
I've got a build job,
I've got a test job,
I've got an analyze job,
and then I've got my workflows.
Let's just look at the workflows really quick.
My_workflow is the name of the workflow,
and it's got three jobs,
build, test, and analyze.
We can see that test requires build.
That means it's going to run build first and then it's going to run test.
Analyze requires test.
That means that test,
when it finishes, it will finally run the analyze.
If you visualize this horizontally on a graph,
it's going to go build and then to the right test,
and then to the right analyze in that order.
Let's take a look at these jobs really quick.
Here's build.
All three of these, by the way,
are using the exact same node or a docker image,
which is node 13.
First, we're going to check out,
and we actually do a checkout on all three of these jobs.
Just a very common step that you need to run,
and here you can see,
I'm going to install my npm packages and we're going to save_cache,
which we've learned about cache in the past.
We are going to use the npm package is key,
and then I'm giving it this path to my node modules.
Then I'm going to run,
in this case is npm run lint.
I didn't show that one to you.
Pretty simple, npm run lint and it's just going to lint the code.
It finishes even faster than build does, and test,
very similar, almost exactly the same thing except for in test,
I'm going to restore_cache.
I'm restoring cache with the keys npm packages,
which is the same key that was referenced here at line 11.
I'm going to install npm packages again.
But in this case, it's actually going to use the cached version
instead of downloading them fresh from the Internet.
Then it's going to run that command that I just
showed you that I can run my own terminal,
and then my analyze is going to do very much the same thing.
Is going to check it out, restore cache.
In this case, I actually don't need to restore cache or even run npm install,
because this npm audit actually just runs without installing any dependencies.
These three jobs are going to run in my CircleCI server.
All I have got to do now is make a small change to my code, check it in,
and watch the build run. Let's take a look.
I'm going to add a ReadMe file. Hello world.
Now, that is now pushed up into CircleCI.
Let's take a look at our build.
Here is my build running in CircleCI.
If I click here, I should be able to see that the build is running,
its 16-17 seconds into it.
Then test is just waiting patiently here
for its chance to run and then analyze will also wait.
Just like I said,
when you visualize these horizontally,
when you set up that require structure,
then basically one goes after the other.
It just ends up with a linear visualization.
There we have our finished CI build,
and all three of our jobs have passed with flying colors.